As-salamu alaykum warahmatullah hi
wabarakatuh. How are you guys doing and
welcome to the most irregular and
inconsistent podcast known to man, which
is the MH podcast. And I'm joined with
none other than Lowkey. How you doing
Lowkey? Mashallah. You okay?
And you might not need an introduction
from you guys. You've seen him on Piers
Morgan. He is I would say one of the
leading voices in the pro-Palestinian
activism. Formerly a rapper. I'm not
sure if you still do it. If you still
got the lyrical abilities.
But you've been using your words in a
different way and we want to talk about
that. Actually, let's start with that.
Yeah, yeah. Let's start with with
bumping on Piers Morgan.
What was your first of all your overall
experience and what how do you put how
do you characterize his overall
positionality?
So what I would say with Piers Morgan
that people need to be aware of
Yeah. is ultimately when you enter into
an interview with him, he's seeking to
do things to
uh destabilize you, to discomfort you,
to disrupt you.
Yeah. And unfortunately in this
particular case, I feel he was
successful with you either. He wasn't
successful with with with
any of us really so far. I think because
of the power of what is happening
Yeah, yeah, yeah. to our people,
ultimately
he's he's coming up in quite a synthetic
way. Yeah. Um but as a sort of outrage
merchant what he's seeking to do in this
case and this scenario is kind of put
you into a space of almost
being
against the law in your view. So
obviously, they know with the situation
in Palestine support for
a particular resistance faction is
illegal in this country. So they seek
ways to try and bait you
into a place of discomfort and
unfortunately, kind of try and ruin your
life. Because this idea of you somehow
supporting what is beyond the pale
morally is is meant to actually
ironically cancel you.
So you know, entering into that space,
you have to be assertive about what it
is you want to say. You have to be
willing to use his own words against
him. Um and you have to sort of be able
to think fast. So I think that
ultimately
both of the interviews we did had um
some use to the cause overall.
But I think with him, I think the
important thing for people to understand
is that the channel itself um TalkTV
is founded by Rupert Murdoch. Yeah. Uh
Rupert Murdoch is was a close friend of
Ariel Sharon. Yeah. Um he's also someone
that through the News Corp Foundation
had funded the Jerusalem Foundation
which builds in illegal settlements in
Sheikh Jarrah. Mhm. Um and also in
addition to that, Rupert Murdoch
formerly had a place on the board of
something called Genie Energy, which is
an oil and gas company which has deals
in the occupied Golan Heights of Syria.
It's occupied by the Israelis. Now were
Gaza to be depopulated and the gas which
is there to be exploited, it's entirely
possible that the Israeli subsidiary of
Genie Energy could get that contract.
been seeing that on the news recently as
well and that's it's been something that
people has been speaking about that you
got natural gas in Gaza and one of the
um intentions of the Israeli state is to
move obviously depopulate, displace the
Gazan people so that they can go and
take that gas. Cuz obviously, people in
Palestine in Gaza can't do anything with
that gas. They can't export it. They
can't do anything with it. Well, there
was supposedly supposed to be a deal
between the Israeli government and the
Palestinian Authority um represented by
Fatah to exploit that gas which is about
20 nautical miles away from the coast of
Gaza. However, when Hamas won the
election, what that did was and and then
took control of Gaza essentially what
that meant was there could be no
negotiating and sort of shared
um arrangement. And particularly also
the Israeli government changed from the
Labour government to the Likud
government and that was also a
government that was more intransigent on
that issue. So therefore, it could not
be exploited. So certainly, I would say
that is a aspect of what they're doing
in Gaza. One other point about Piers
Morgan that I think
the viewers should be aware of is he has
worked extensively with the Norwood
charity. Now Norwood was founded and is
led by a Jonathan Mendelson
as in the House of Lords um is somebody
that used to head the Labour Friends of
Israel that currently has a Israel lobby
group with incidentally the former head
of the Conservative Friends of Israel
called the Abraham Accords. And also
Norwood also features Trevor Chinn who's
a key
officer of the Israel lobby in this
country on it. So to say that Piers
Morgan just enjoys that kind of seamless
objectivity, I would say is a mistaken
point of view.
Well, many people have been calling him
money over morals, Piers, because it's
really as simple as him being afraid of
losing his job. Uh because if he goes
too far in the direction of condemning
Israel, which he hasn't done by the way
since until this point and
you know um then that would mean that
his boss would let him go. Just like he
was fired before. Well, I mean and also
the thing is is that he has these
personal relationships with very
well-established
energetic
Israel lobbyists. You look at Trevor
Chinn for example, who is behind the
Norwood charity, funded Keir Starmer,
funded Lisa Nandy, funded David Lammy,
key figures within the Labour Party. You
look at Mendelson, Mendelson's funded
Wes Streeting
and he's funded loads of others in the
Labour Party and particularly during the
Blair years. So that's the sort of
strand of the lobby that Morgan is
tapped into.
So you know, whether that affects his
journalism or not, I couldn't
categorically say. However, I would say
that certainly his antagonistic way of
interviewing both yourself me and sort
of anyone that he has a whiff of being
pro-Palestinian. Also, what I find
interesting about him is he takes and
it's something Peterson does as well is
they take macro issues and structural
issues and turn them into individual,
personal and almost ego-based issues. So
with the Piers Morgan thing, what I
found is that he constantly is trying to
get you to talk about your own morality
in comparison to his morality. And
actually, we're dealing with a thing
that is affecting tens of millions of
people and far more serious and far more
I don't mind. I can be a moral monster
for for him if he wants me to be. But my
But my But there are far more pressing
issues at hand. You know, I mean you
know, we're seeing we're seeing people
die
on mass Yeah. killing and mass death and
human suffering and he just wants to sit
around and talk about who will and won't
condemn this and condemn that. When he
himself is not condemning. You know,
that's the other thing that's I've got I
had to try and be careful with him
because if you do what he wants and
allow him to sort of to drag it to his
level, it would just come about me and
him sort of comparing our own morality
in this.
Yeah.
Well, talking about moral monsters,
another person who's
who's who I would consider I would
characterize with that with that kind of
label is Douglas Murray and he's
uh recently been coming out making all
kinds of erroneous statements about
Islam, about Muslim people um all kinds
of very weird justifications.
Like nothing of concession at all coming
from his mouth relating to the
Palestinian people and to the actions of
Israel
or anything of condemnation. Of course,
no way. I mean
Tell us what do you know about Douglas
Murray? So I think to understand Douglas
Murray, obviously we set into
sort of the context, the background.
From Hammersmith, went to Eton already
has this particular class position.
Yeah, yeah.
He used to live there, yeah? Yeah, yeah,
yeah.
And so he has this
this He's coming from this particular
angle of society.
Middle class snobbery.
Yes and also a kind of um
provincial Mhm. outlook on others.
Um certainly pines for colonial era
Yeah. India.
Smoking a pipe kind of Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But to be more specific
when we understand his baby, which is
the Henry Jackson Society
this was a joint project between him and
Alan Mendoza.
Now Alan Mendoza, simultaneous to
leading the Henry Jackson Society with
Douglas Murray is on the board of the
JNF, which is the largest settlement
building body in Palestine. It's been
the key body through which Israel has
denied people their right under UN
Resolution 194, which is the right of
return. Because the basis through which
Israel is able to use the JNF as a quasi
state
organization
their argument has been when
Palestinians have said, "Oh, I'd like to
return to my home." Their argument has
been "No, no, no, that land is owned by
the JNF."
But the JNF is actually a figment of the
Israeli state.
So when we also this also takes us full
circle to Murdoch is when you look at
the founding statement of the Henry
Jackson Society, which is Douglas
Murray's think tank,
which he's used as his vehicle for many,
many years,
you have on it one of the signatories is
Irwin Stelzer, who was the right-hand
man of Rupert Murdoch.
And so therefore you'd have in Murdoch's
newspapers like The Sun, The Times,
people from the Henry Jackson Society
who would write their Islamophobic
ideas. The other thing the Henry Jackson
Society what essential to is prevent,
because through their student rights
campaign, they were able to astroturf,
which is where you make something appear
grassroots, when actually it's an
expression of
um of power from above. Um the idea that
there was a need for something like
prevent in schools, so they lobbied
relentlessly for that. But then if we
also look at who were the other
signatories to the founding statement of
the Henry Jackson Society, you also have
James Woolsey, who was the former
director of the CIA. You also have uh
Richard Dearlove, who's actually the MI5
chief at the time that the WMD claims
about Iraq were in place, and Dearlove
was believed to be implicated in that
process as chief of the MI6. You had
General Jack Jack Sheehan as a former
NATO supreme commander.
And you have other kind of figures of
the military and intelligence elite,
that this is the milieu in which Douglas
Murray
pontificates. However, he was somebody
that was a very public-facing figure who
was regularly platformed on the BBC, on
Channel 4, as if he was some sort of
oracle
on cultural matters. When really, you
know, you take it back to who was Henry
Jackson,
he was a senator in the US Congress
known as Senator Boeing, because he
always supported the arms industry,
Boeing of course an arms company. So
when you also look at the funding of
Henry Jackson Society, you see for
instance the Hertog Foundation, Hertog
Foundation also fund the building of
settlements
in in Palestine. You also have the
They share funders with the Quilliam
Foundation, they share funders with the
Friends of the IDF. And even if you look
at who are the political figures
who have emerged from the Henry Jackson
Society, got people like Michael Gove,
of course well known for the Trojan
Horse scandal and other Islamophobic
policies. You've got Amber Rudd, well
known for the Windrush scandal and other
racist policies.
Um
Priti Patel was on the political council
of the Henry Jackson Society. And you
know, I've done uh
a research into Henry Jackson in Henry
Jackson Society employees, and several
of them have come out of either the
Israeli military or Israeli military
think tanks. So Douglas Murray's
orientation
is towards encouraging Islamophobia
domestically, but lock in step with the
trilateral security state of the
British, the US, and the Israelis. Very,
very praising of Netanyahu, he's close
and has met Netanyahu several times at
least. Um so you know, when you see him
on the Piers Morgan show
He was there at the protection of the
IDF, wasn't he? Precisely. He was
embedded with the IDF, and you know, it
was a bit of a publicity stunt, because
When he jumped for the invisible rocket,
did you see that? Yeah.
Exactly.
But but what's scary what's scary and
sort of worrying is the power that has
been wielded, and also the extent to
which him and his organizations are
taken as experts by the British
government. So for instance there's
something called the Extremism Analysis
Unit, which is an institution within
British government, which actually um
analyzes social media output and tweets
for extremism and defining
extremism analysis unit, and that is de
facto run by the Henry Jackson Society.
I also have people who formally worked
for the Home Office. And what he told me
is they would directly
What Extremism Analysis Unit Extremism
Analysis Unit. What is What is that? Is
that part of Henry Jackson? No. So Henry
Jackson Society is a key part of it. So
they will rely on it for their um So
what is it? Is it What What's the What's
this It's a government institution that
basically will So it's part of
government.
Yeah, and it's the way in which um
government designates in a invisible
way, but it's actually a sort of
informal internal blacklisting
producing organization.
All right.
So it will have analyzed your videos, it
will have analyzed your social media
output, and it will have um collated
information about you to try and define
you in one way or another. To be honest,
it would be the kind of organization
that
would be related to depriving people of
particular jobs, that would um
potentially have a role in
bank bank accounts type of stuff. So it
is quite an important um
way in which the society
um
uses Islamophobia as a state practice,
but does it in an implicit way. You
know, essentially we have implicit
unfreedoms in our society. That's a
really good point, David. And it's not
just people like me or you who are
public figures, I'm sure they're doing
that with all kinds of people, right?
Another person who if we're talking
about moral monsters or people that
just don't seem to get it is uh
BS Ben Shapiro, and this
useful acronym because most of what he
does say is BS.
Tell me, what do you know about him? So
Ben Shapiro um He's American journalist.
An alleged journalist. He's an alleged
journalist. But but what he does have is
an article that was wiped from the
internet that he published in 2003,
in which he says we need to stop being
squeamish about genocide, and we need to
depopulate Gaza and the West Bank.
Obviously he's drawing Really?
Yeah, and obviously I'll happily send it
to you.
Have you got that? I have it, yes. So so
this
On the Wayback Machine.
Squeamish about genocide, yeah? He said
we should stop being squeamish about
genocide, and we should if if if we
if we want to do what's best for the
Palestinians, we should relocate them.
It's not genocide. population transfer,
absolutely.
I'm as sure as anything. And and Why
haven't you published this? I have, I
have. On Twitter? I have. And I'll and
I'll send it to you. So we've got the
Wayback sort of machine. If you want to
If you have
If you know something
deny that this No. He doesn't deny it?
No, no, no. He published it.
Really, bro? Yeah, yeah. Actually I'll
show it to you right now.
Yeah, please do. I I mean I can we put
that on the screen as Yeah, yeah,
because that one there is going to
definitely require
squeamish about genocide. Yeah. My God.
I'll show you.
He said it's population transfer, not
genocide. And the thing with population
transfer in terms of Zionist thought,
there's an incredible book
by Nur Masalha called The Expulsion of
the Palestinians, in which it traces
You know, let Okay.
Here you go. If you believe that Israel
has a right to exist, then you must
allow Israel to transfer Palestinians
and Israeli Arabs from Judea, Samaria,
Gaza, and Israel proper. Time to stop
being squeamish, transfer is not
genocide. Ben Shapiro in article now
wiped from the internet. Here it is.
Transfer is not a dirty word. And then
I've
So he probably paid somebody What he
What's your thing? What's your analysis?
Do you think he paid somebody to get rid
of that article? Well, from the website
it's possible that because it's such an
old article, it's from 2003,
it's not impossible
that either the website sort of lost
it's it's um
it's web space. It's not impossible.
What I do think is most likely though is
that he probably did ask them to take
down the article, because he's trying to
get a bit more mainstream acceptance.
But essentially what he is is a sort of
Jabotinskyite revisionist um uh
part of that thread of Zionism.
So just to
for the for the viewers, Jabotinsky was
one of the early Zionist thinkers.
One of the early Zionist leaders, he was
trained by the British. Um he was, you
know,
idolized Mussolini, idolized East
European fascists,
um worked with Ukrainian
um serious anti-Semites, responsible for
killing tens of thousands of Jews.
Um and he himself was a militant. So at
one point he was imprisoned by the
British despite being trained by them,
and then led a campaign fighting them.
But essentially his belief was the
Palestinians are indigenous. He was not
in any had no qualms about saying that.
And for that reason, we have to push
them outside of what we want as our idea
of Israel, and build an iron wall to
stop them from coming back in. Because
he said no indigenous people will accept
alien invaders. So it So there was an
honesty about those sort of early
Zionist thinkers and writers. But Ben
Shapiro
ultimately, let's look at his sort of
trajectory in terms of what he did. So
when he was starting, as as far as I've
been able to identify, he was a Shillman
fellow at the David Horowitz Freedom
Center
at the same time Tommy Robinson was. So
what is this center just for them? So
David Horowitz Freedom Center is a key
Israel lobby group in the US, but
slightly more forward-facing propaganda
battle based. Um funded by several
organizations that also fund
settlements, by organizations that also
fund for instance the Center for
Security Policy, which um came up with
the Muslim ban for Trump.
Um but the David Horowitz Freedom Center
had within it a Shillman Fellowship and
that was when Robert Shillman, who was a
big tech billionaire, Mhm. but also a
board member of the Friends of the IDF.
Mhm. So, that means that Ben Shapiro was
on a program was
funded by a board member of the Friends
of the IDF at the same time as Tommy
Robinson was funded by a board member of
Friends of the IDF. Mhm. And so, then
the next step in terms of Ben Shapiro's
career is of course The Daily Wire.
Before that, Friends of the IDF seems to
be a common link in a lot of this.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. How how big are
they like? Massive. I mean, you know,
they pour hundreds of millions of
dollars every single year into the
Israeli military's activities.
Unfortunately, they have quite a lot of
widespread mainstream acceptance. You've
had Pharrell Williams go to some of
their events. You've had Brad Pitt go to
some of their events.
Possibly donate.
You've got some pretty high-ranking
figures within the music industry who
have gone to their events as well.
But ultimately, Ben Shapiro then was
involved in the setting up of the Prager
University YouTube channel. Yeah, I've
seen that.
That that's very well known. Mhm. But
when he and his partner Jeremy Boreing
was setting up Prager University,
Dennis Prager is an open Israel
lobbyist. He said, "I've set up this
channel to fight Israel's battles."
Who was the director? Marissa Strait.
Marissa Strait is an alumni of Unit 8200
in the Israeli military. It's the
signals intelligence
unit of the Israeli military, which is
kind of the equivalent of GCHQ. So, this
is who Ben Shapiro worked with. Mhm. And
then he went on to finding to founding
The Daily Wire with Jeremy Boreing. And
The Daily Wire has, you know, within it
their chief 115 employees, they say,
isn't it? Interesting. Yeah.
Interesting. Yeah, I mean, that's that's
pretty big for a media company. I mean,
they they offered Steven Crowder. I
think he came out and said that they
offered him 50 million a a year.
Are you serious? That's what I heard. 50
million a year. So, that's what a lot of
people said someone like Jordan
Peterson's probably getting.
Extraordinary. Yeah.
That's a huge amount of money. And so,
their chief operating officer is
John Lewis, who's former
US Marine. And then they've got another
gentleman there who's former US military
intelligence. But in addition to that,
they are funded by Express VPN. And
we're opening possibly another can of
worms here. Because Express VPN, the
sole owner of it is Cape Technologies.
Mhm. And Cape Technologies is
That's something
I saw that from my phone. I didn't know.
Well, well,
well, well, check check check this cuz
this is interesting about about possibly
also some of the activity of of Peterson
as well. Yeah. Is the CEO of Cape
Technologies is Ido Erlich. And Ido
Erlich came out of the Duvdevan unit.
And the Duvdevan unit are what they call
Mista'arvim in the Israeli military. So,
they are people that go into Palestinian
communities disguised as Palestinians
speaking Arabic like Palestinians.
Yeah.
There's
differing Well, that happened a lot in
the in the Egyptian wars as well. And
there's lots of now films in Egyptian
language, Egyptian Arabic, like
portraying
Nasser's son-in-law.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And the thing with them is it kind of
differs the amount of time that they may
be exposed. So, you might have a
Duvdevan unit that just enter a
community, kidnap someone and take them
out. But what you might actually have is
somebody who spends
6 months, a year, 2 years, marries in,
and then gets people arrested.
Wow, wow, wow. Um, and so, the Duvdevan
unit are very
effective. You know, if you look at like
the Yamam unit in the Israeli military,
it's not respected. It's not it's not
careful. It doesn't have experienced
fighters in it. It's mostly people that
have been in there a year or something
and they're sent You look at Unit 8200,
you look at the Duvdevan, these are the
pride of the Israeli military.
And so, out of Unit 8200 and Duvdevan,
you will often see these figures that go
on to be sort of enterprising
entrepreneurs and able to assert
Israel's agency in other places. So, in
my personal estimation, I would say that
it's highly likely it's highly likely
that at least Ben Shapiro, if not The
Daily Wire operation, is some type of
insinuation of Israeli intelligence. And
I'm not saying that in a and I do
believe it's a shared in in city like
so, it's shared between US and Israeli
influence and a push.
Mhm.
Um, but I believe that what they've
sought to do is
two
a variation of two things. So, the Reut
Institute, which is a key Israeli
intelligence think tank, published a
study of London and and found within it
that London was the hub of the hub of
the hubs of delegitimization of Israel.
And what they did is they categorized
people like us who support the
Palestinians into two categories.
this circle? The Reut Institute.
Reut Institute. Reut. Yeah, Reut. Oh,
Reut.
Yeah, R E U T. Okay. And and basically,
what they did is is create two
categories, criticizers, critics, and
delegitimizers. Now,
what I would say happens through an
organization like The Daily Wire is they
will
um, aim at critics what they call
strategic engagement strategy. So,
that's what they
deem to be critics.
That's what they deem to be critics. So,
people that are possibly salvageable or
at least treadmillized. At least you can
sort of put them on a treadmill and kind
of slow them down a bit. The
delegitimizers, they go directly to war
with. So, they do everything they can to
discredit. I think in the situation with
yourself and Ben Shapiro,
Right. he he
He hasn't tried to do any of that. He he
fears he fears the um,
the venom.
Mhm.
He fears direct confrontation in that
way. So, for instance, if you look at
his interview with Andrew Neil, Mhm. he
wilts.
Mhm. He wilts. He's very good at sort of
passive aggression. He's very good at
um,
kind of trying to talk down to people,
but he's not very good at raw
aggression. Mhm. And I think in in the
case of Andrew Neil and in the case of
of your
possible, hopefully, future running with
Ben Shapiro, future debate with Ben
Shapiro,
this this is kind of his he's also
seemingly ducking debating Norman
Finkelstein as well. And I think that's
partly because There's a knowledge gap.
Yeah, Norman is a very meticulous
scholar and there's a whole lifetime of
of of study and research there. Whereas,
No, but he makes blunders as Shapiro.
Absolutely.
Like historical blunders and this and
that. He would be eaten alive really by
someone like Finkelstein. He's He's for
the last 50 years or something he's been
he's been researching.
Uh, we've got a book here of his. He's
been written so many books of
you know, on this topic. But that's
really really
good. Let's let's talk about some other
figures. I just cuz I you've got the
files on them. Yeah.
You've got you've got this information.
And it's good that you're exposing them
to the public.
Um, because this is pretty good
information.
People like let's start with Tommy
Robinson. He's come back now. Him and
Katie Hopkins to ex.
Um,
these guys are not really serious
academics. They don't have any money.
Like they're not big business people.
What's their use you think? Because
they've also been linked to some of
these
groups that you've mentioned, the
Israeli groups, haven't they?
So, I think if we understand
Islamophobia through the lens of
what was described in the book
Islamophobia Social Movements from
Above, Tom Mills, David Miller,
and a few other writers,
they argued that there were five pillars
of Islamophobia and that you had the
obviously the state being the start of
it, which is
which in engages the wars, which then
trickles down through think tanks and
works with a sort of symbiotic
relationship with the other five
pillars.
For me, I've always seen the Tommy
Robinson side of it as the street
fighting or at least aspiring to street
fight, the sort of pogrom pushing
side of the Islamophobia movement, which
is about
defining Muslims in the way that he did
as combatants. So, as the internal
outsiders. You know, and something I've
always found fascinating about Tommy
Robinson is obviously it's not his name.
His name Stephen Yaxley-Lennon.
A quintessentially Celtic name. So, this
is somebody from Irish background.
So,
I've wondered if there is a sort of with
otherhood comes brotherhood type of
mentality where he's trying to
camouflage his own outsider status and
adopt a basically Anglo-Saxon name,
which is Tommy Robinson, um, to try and
kind of force his own
belonging to this society. But, you
know, I mean, it's psychoanalysis. What
what do we really know about what's
going on in this man's
That's that's an interesting
realization though. Yeah. I never I
never thought of his his name. But he's
become really quite irrelevant recently,
hasn't he? Absolutely. I think with him,
the period when he was able to really
kick up a lot of trouble
at Speakers' Corner and other places and
take to the streets by the thousands.
Around 2018, 2019, right? He he had
algorithmic dominance.
Significance, yeah, yeah. And this was
the period when
And he could mobilize people, but now I
don't think he could do that. He
couldn't. And he this was the time when
he was funded by Robert Shillman um, who
undoubtedly, he's a tech billionaire.
So, what do you think is happening if
not algorithmic engineering? Yes. You
know, there had to be a reason why his
Facebook was growing at the same time as
Britain First Facebook were growing to
millions when everyone else's was kind
of slowing down. And there's arguments
about what happened internally to
Facebook.
actually had um
like it was
a this a disparity with the numbers of
views and the engage as the numbers of
followers and the engagement.
Interesting. Because one of the ways
that a lot of people are buying like you
know, followers and stuff like that. So,
we done a quick analysis and it's not
it's not hard to make there's these um
websites that do it now hype manager
this I can't remember the name of the
website. But you go on them and they'll
tell you the engagement rate of a
particular so someone could have you
know, tens of or not hundreds of
millions of followers, but then if
they've got an engagement rate of like
0.5% or something like that in terms of
the likes in terms of the comments
it's likely it's likely to be fake. And
so that's what if you go to Britain
First Facebook page all the markers of
bought followers and stuff like that.
That that makes sense. That makes sense.
I mean with the Tommy Robinson case when
he was imprisoned
the organization which organized not
only paid his legal fees but also
organized the free Tommy campaign was an
organization called the Middle East
Forum. Now, Middle East Forum is so
Islamophobic that Anders Breivik quoted
it tens of times in his manifesto. He
cited it.
So, they funded his legal fees. Now,
who's behind the Middle East Forum? None
other than Greg Roman. He is a former
employee of the Israeli Ministry of
Defense and the Israeli Foreign
Ministry. So, you've got a significant
push
um going behind Tommy Robinson that
without a doubt was coming from
Israeli sources very close to the
Israeli government and the Israeli
military. So, in a way there was an
attempt to push this pogrom kind of you
know,
Douglas Murray is a legis- legislative
Islamophobia. He is make things more
difficult for Muslims across the board.
Justify
he's said that. He's said that in one of
his books, isn't he? Precisely. Yeah.
Tommy is hurt them.
It's firebomb their shops.
Mhm. It's they are combatants. That's
exactly what Tommy Robinson said which
is a direct justification of violence
against them. He said, "All the people
in these houses are combatants." So, you
know,
as you say, it it it it went it had its
time. It fizzled out. He's trying to
make a comeback. He probably won't. He's
seen as too crude
for the mainstream. So, he he was never
going to be given the kind of platforms
or have the longevity that Douglas
Murray had. Mhm. What about Katie
Hopkins? She's also been reinstated. She
has and she's a fascinating
figure because there's a lot of
possibilities that are quite difficult
to kind of confirm. She also has worked
with the David Horowitz Freedom Center.
She's met Mark Regev the former IDF
spokesman and former Israeli ambassador
to London. But she also claims in an
interview with the Guardian that she the
only reason she's not in the army now is
because she has epilepsy. So, when she
studied at Exeter her
um education in economics actually her
degree was funded by the British
military and then she says upon
finishing uni
this is what she claims she signed a
35-year contract with British military
intelligence.
It seems a sort of fantastical claim.
However,
either way I find it fascinating to
think that the level of astroturfing of
Islamophobia could have been so strong
that you would have somebody on a
contract with British military
intelligence.
Someone like someone like her. Someone
like her.
publishing the kind of stuff she's
publishing. So, this is these are some
of the figures that uh in the UK I would
probably on the UK and the US really
well consider like the loudest voices
for Israel and against the Palestinian
cause and against the Islam or Muslims
or Islamophobic figures. And I'm glad
that we have something of a
you've opened the files the dossier on
all all of these people which is really
really really good.
Um let's go straight into the conflict
now and see what's I want your kind of
first of all your overall assessment of
what's happening.
I'll tell you something that we've got a
obviously the critical content news. We
have a team now at Hamdullah which are
comprised of
people who good at AI good at this
different kind of specialisms. We've got
a new YouTube channel
which has like daily news and stuff like
that which uh maybe we could provide the
link for.
But
one thing which has recently come out
which I found quite fascinating
uh are the figures
by the IDF
of the 1,400 people that they say have
been killed
on that day and they are pre-released
figures
to
um
Haaretz left-wing newspaper in in
Israel.
And maybe I'll leave the the article
will be up on the crew content news.
However, just some of the key points is
that they say there's
1,400 names. They said we have the 1,400
names on
X
sorry on that have been killed. They
said this on X.
And then they they provide much less
than that.
That's the first thing. So, there's
disparities in the numbers.
And then even according to their figures
we're looking at the amount of children
that have been killed under the age of
18 that's how they they define a child
and it's 25.
And we look at the amount of babies that
have been killed and it's one not 40 as
they previously claimed.
So, that's one aspect of it. But what I
found even more fascinating
than that
was that according to them something
like anything between 300 to 340
military personnel have been killed just
on October the 7th.
Anything between that numbers depending
on whose numbers you're going with where
we're going with the Haaretz numbers or
you're going with the ones that they put
up on X on Twitter. Which one are you
which one are you going with?
Um
340 that's on October the 7th. That's
not including okay, the numbers that
have been killed after October the 7th
after the the land invasion right? into
Gaza.
If you add those numbers we're talking
well over maybe
according to their numbers which are
obviously disputed by Hamas. I mean Abu
Obaida says
just recently said that
the the director the leader the general
of Hamas on the ground there is
spokesperson spokesperson.
He said that
uh they destroyed 140 tanks 138 to be
exact. This is yesterday.
He said that we destroyed 140 tanks and
that the numbers he's claiming is the
numbers that they're saying have been
destroyed is much less than actually
that have been destroyed. That's their
claim. Obviously in wars you've got to
take everything with a pinch of salt.
But according to the the most
conservative numbers are the numbers
that the Israelis are going to give on
their own
troops and military men being killed.
And we're talking about anything between
300 and
20 218 to say 340 on just October the
7th. If you add the numbers then maybe
it goes up to about 370.
Uh that's a conservative number. Now,
a Guardian article has been
uh
has stated right? that
they say dozens dozens of people have
been killed from Hamas
in terms of the actual combatants
which is shocking because if we're
talking about dozens let's say for the
sake of argument about 60. sake of
argument
This indicates
if we say 360
you know,
uh effectively the amount of
IDF that have been killed comparative to
the amount of Hamas
is
uh one out of six.
And the amount which means that the
amount of civilians that we know have
been killed is over 10,000.
So,
that is an incredible disparity which
shows you that if we're talking about
human shield if we're talking about this
if we're talking about killing civilians
or collateral damage
that Israel has been much more failure.
They've had a much heavier failure than
the IDF in terms of
not killing the civilians effectively.
What do you make of these figures and
how does that make
what do you what do you think of that?
Well, I think we should also speak a
little bit about what the possible cause
of the casualties on the Israeli side
could be. Yeah. But what I would say is
that in addition to that they've lost
over 40 soldiers on the northern front.
That's right. According according to
sources in South Lebanon.
But also
tourism
has gone down 70%.
Also, the Tamar gas field which is run
by Chevron has been shut down by the
Israelis for fear of it being targeted
by resistance factions. And that costs
Israel something like 200 million
dollars a month. WOULD YOU CONDEMN THAT?
YEAH, GO AHEAD. SORRY. YEAH. SO, IN
ADDITION TO that when you think about
Israel's success for one side looks
different from the other side. So, the
Palestinian struggle has been about
staying power. Yeah.
And avoiding 2 million people being
pushed into the Sinai desert is
it is success in in this
equation.
Whereas for Israel it is finding a way
to sustain the Zionist arrangement,
which in addition to, you know, it's
believed that during this period 13
billion has been lost by the Israeli
economy. Don't forget, with the Israeli
military, it is an army of reserves,
meaning they've taken 360,000 people out
of the traditional labor market. So,
what does that do to any economy if you
were to take 300,000 people plus
out of that
that place?
On top of it,
Israel has had to rely on US special
forces who, you know, according to
senior US military figures when they
first tried to go in in the first
incursion, in his words, they were shot
to pieces and they had to retreat. So,
Which one is this? Is this
What in this in this instance?
This is in this instance
in the first instance.
Pentagon advisor Douglas McGregor said
on US news
Yeah. our special forces tried to enter
with the Israelis and they were shot to
pieces. Yes. Yes.
So, so ultimately what you're talking
about
pieces.
Well, what you're talking about is urban
warfare.
That's quite damning, isn't it?
It is damning and absolutely the Israeli
military is used to bullying children
and grannies at checkpoints.
Yeah.
It's used to air strikes from above,
it's used to drones, it's used to
signals intelligence, which is spying on
people. It is not used to urban warfare
in a terrain which is This is what Al
Jazeera Arabic have I've been I've been
following their news and stuff and what
one of the things they say is that a lot
of the analysts There's one very
brilliant analyst, his name is Fayez I I
forget his surname, but he's a very
brilliant analyst.
Um
one of the
a lot of the analysts are saying is that
this was actually the plan all along for
Hamas. It would have been. It would have
been. But I think it would have been
anticipated to happen sooner. Yes. Yeah.
That they came in a bit earlier. Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean,
you you mentioned that in 2014, they had
a bad time on the ground with Hamas. And
in 2006, with Hezbollah, they had a very
bad time. In 2000,
they left Southern Lebanon because of
the pressure of the fighters there. So,
they have a very poor track record
when it comes to ground fighting, don't
they? I mean
Absolutely. And anything but bombing
from the sky. Yes. You know, one of the
things that Moshe Dayan, who was the
Israeli
Minister of Defense and key figure in
the Zionist movement, he said, "Our job
after '67 is to make the occupation
invisible. We have to be able to control
these people in a frictionless way. And
in a way, Gaza was the prototype because
they were able to control the sea, the
land, the electricity, what goes in,
what goes out. And yet you found You
have to remember that some of the
rockets that have been used against
Israel have been repurposed unexploded
munitions that were dropped on them by
the Israelis. Yes. So, you're really
talking about Al Haja Um Al Ikhtera.
Necessity
is the mother of all invention. Yeah.
And that has happened in Gaza. You know,
I I saw it also in Cuba, you know,
people that are deprived of things, they
find ways to
work for their interest under the ground
cuz the one place that Israel would not
be able to surveil them
would be in the tunnels under the
ground. So, you know, it's and the
Israelis are obviously talking about
gassing it. But I think we should
definitely touch on the possibility of
the Hannibal directive being implemented
because there's a few testimonies that
have come out from
what happened on October 7th that I
think are definitely vital for people to
know.
So, let's just uh quickly define the
Hannibal directive. So, the Hannibal
directive was developed by Israel during
its occupation of Lebanon in the '80s
where it came to the conclusion that as
a source of information
a captive of one of their soldiers was
far more damaging the longer they were
captured. So, the implication was you
should seek
to eliminate them, neutralize them.
Neutralize everyone Yeah. in order to
stop them taking someone captive. So,
the less time that someone was held
captive, the better. And you see it
implemented in 2014 particularly when
there were several hostages taken. A
particular one, Golden Hadar, was taken
and the Israelis killed everyone
including him. What about Gilad Shalit?
So, his case is fascinating because
Because the opposite kind of kind of is
counter intuitive to this theory.
a thousand they got a because they
couldn't get I mean, one would assume
Mhm.
that they were not able to get to him
Mhm. or to the resistance that had him,
but in the end
um the Palestinians were able to get a
thousand political prisoners released
for one Israeli soldier. So, that
actually is illustrative of the extent
to which Israel values
its its soldiers and its hostages.
No, but then the Hannibal directive
would say the opposite of that, wouldn't
it? Because it would say that you you
can kill your own. But but my
understanding, while it it it's
certainly very limited is that they
wouldn't have been able to get in the
position to do such a thing in his case.
So, they they use it as an exception to
the rule because they were incapable of
getting to him. As far as my
understanding is, but in the case of
what happened with October 7th, so you
have some very very important testimony
that I think especially English language
media should try and and look at as much
as possible.
kibbutz and and how the, you know, that
they were the IDF was bombing the
kibbutz themselves, these villages
outside. Yeah. So, three three
particular cases that I think we need to
look at. So, number one is Yasmine
Porat, who is a survivor of kibbutz
Be'eri where some of the people from
name, Yasmine? Yasmine Porat. Okay.
Where some were taken from
the music festival, they were taken to
this kibbutz. Now, she
gave an interview to Israeli state media
on the 10th of October. Mhm. Now, on the
9th of October, what had happened, she'd
been taken and been held at that kibbutz
for 2 days, bear in mind. So, this is
this is interesting information.
Alongside her husband and 12 others,
she'd been held hostage captive.
At which point Israeli tanks had come
and shelled where they were. Mhm.
According to her testimony, they killed
everyone including the Palestinian
fighters and the Israelis that were with
them. Now, that interview was up on the
website of the Israeli state radio and
then it was deleted not long afterwards,
but it has been published about in
Electronic Intifada. We got the
recording and we put it out there. So,
it's it's a established fact.
can we can where can we get that?
Electronic Intifada done brilliant work
on it. Now, another case
Is that a website, Intifada? Yeah,
Intifada, Electronic Intifada. Okay.
Another case that is absolutely
important for us to be aware of is
Amos Harel, the security correspondent
for Haaretz, wrote an article about the
Erez Crossing, which is one of the first
military bases you come to when leaving
Gaza.
Now, when that was overtaken by the
Palestinian fighters,
General Brigadier Rosenfeld
when realizing that he was unable to
protect the base, called in an air
strike.
Now, what that air strike looked like, I
don't know. Who did and who didn't die,
I don't know. But what I do know is that
in
high-ranking Israeli military figure
called in an air strike on himself in
his own base to avoid it falling into
the hands of the Palestinians.
the source for this? Where where can
Amos Harel in Haaretz. Haaretz, okay,
fine. Okay.
Now, in the third case, which And is
that Hebrew Haaretz or English one?
English. Well, actually it was first
published in Hebrew, but apparently it's
unclear whether the
the that particular aspect of the story
remains in the Hebrew version, but it
was afterwards published in Mondoweiss
and other sources that are more
supportive of the Palestinian cause and
they said, "Look, Rosenfeld called in an
air strike. What does that mean?"
Now, the third case is we've seen
footage
put out today of Israeli Apache
helicopters shooting at moving vehicles
that were believed to contain Israeli
captives in.
Really? And we've had testimony in Ynet
News, which is another Israeli paper,
talking about the difficult decision
that those pilots had to make about
shooting on cars which they knew
also how had Israeli captives inside,
yeah.
So, so so really our perception and then
there's the other side of this, which is
our version of the death toll is further
skewed partly because it was believed to
be a thousand to 500 to 2,000
Palestinian fighters that got into
the political entity of Israel.
Their bodies were not only these were
people were killed, they were urinated
on, their bodies were stabbed and
mutilated, their bodies were run over by
cars,
some of them were obviously imprisoned,
some of them probably would have
cooperated with the Israelis. You have
numerous things that happened. Some
workers from Gaza were kidnapped and
taken and tortured by the Israelis and
now have been released back into Gaza.
So,
you know, we're just talking about
cruelty on an industrial scale practiced
as a status quo, as a norm by the
Israelis. I think it would also be good
for us to cover Al-Aqsa and what is
being attempted there because it's kind
of the core of this Yeah, so the whole
thing is called to find Al-Aqsa.
That's how Hamas have have labeled this
thing.
Yeah. There's a
one of the things that people are afraid
of in this whole thing is or that have
been spoken about for years and years
actually is the destruction of Al-Aqsa.
So, what are some of the institutions
that are working for that overtly? Yeah.
And what's the connection with this with
this conflict?
for a long time this story of the
destruction of Al-Aqsa was seen as
something that well, the older
generation are convinced of it being
true, but is it true? Is it a conspiracy
theory? What is it? What we know for a
fact based on the Israeli army
investigation of 2013,
you have particular organizations like
the Temple Institute and generally the
Temple Mount Movement which believes in
the building of what they call the third
Jewish Temple on the compound on top of
the ruins of the Masjid al-Aqsa.
Now,
the point with the Temple Mount Movement
is it's led by Yehuda Glick who is
a man from the United States who's
former Israeli intelligence close to
Benjamin Netanyahu.
It's funded by some interesting figures.
For instance, Henry Swieca who used to
fund the David Horowitz Freedom Center
which is Tommy Robinson.
Tommy Robinson shared funders with an
organization seeking the destruction of
Al-Aqsa. So,
in addition to that, it's funded by a
gentleman who owns duty-free America.
So, a lot of the duty-free shops in US
airports.
Um
Now, the important thing
about the Temple Institute, the
important thing is that they have very
well drawn out plans for once the
compound is demolished and what will be
built on top of it, the Temple Institute
which is the main organization is so
close now to the Israeli state that two
important things. It's funded by the
Ministry of Culture, it's funded by the
Israeli Ministry of Education. It used
to be funded for by the Deputy Defense
Minister of Israel, but even more than
that, if individual women do not want to
take part in conscription in the Israeli
military, the Israeli state allowed them
to as an alternative to that join the
Temple Institute. So, this is the extent
of it and it historically it wasn't like
that. There was an antagonism between
the Israeli state and between these
settlers that wanted to destroy Al-Aqsa.
Now,
since at least 2017
to 18, if I remember correctly, there's
the military are working with them.
Prior to that though, this this
organization has been funded by the
Ministry of Education, the Ministry of
Culture for decades. But in terms of the
military now facilitate, you know,
because daily we'll see settlers going
in and people say, "Oh, you know, these
settlers raiding Al-Aqsa." It's not that
the settlers are raiding Al-Aqsa. It is
that they are um laying the foundation
for the destruction. You know, and that
sounds crazy, but it would have sounded
crazy 2 months ago if I said to you they
want to take 2 million people in Gaza
and dump them in the Sinai desert.
Zionism as a maximalist movement with an
argument that Jabotinsky won. You know,
if you look at it's not Theodor Herzl,
you know, who's credited as the founder
of Zionism that has the most parks,
schools, hospitals, cinemas named after
him in Israel. It's Jabotinsky. He won
the argument. The revisionist won the
argument which is maximalist expansion
at all costs. And and one of those
aspects is Gaza, one of them is pushing
the Palestinians from the West Bank into
Jordan or into Egypt, and the other one
is the destruction of Al-Aqsa. Al-Aqsa
and unfortunately
what has now happened with Gaza has I
think pressed fast forward on all of
those processes. And
within 5 to 10 years, pardon me. And I
am convinced that within 5 to 10 years
they will use it on some type of
pretext. Now, that pretext could be that
there's resistance coming from Al-Aqsa,
so they have to shell it.
Right? There's people keeping weapons in
Al-Aqsa, so they have to do that.
There's there's numerous different
possibilities of how they're going to
approach this. And Ben Shapiro is a key
advocate for this. A key advocate for
the building of the third temple.
So, we're in dangerous times. You know,
ultimately we're talking about
major unrest around the world over what
they're attempting to do. That is
extremely informative and I think many
people will be taking notes as I have
been doing the same thing.
Um I want to speak about just to kind of
end this podcast. It's been it's been
brilliant. I think a lot of people will
be and this is very important, I think.
This is an angle of the conflict. We
speak about the kind of I've done a
podcast before that blood and the Lucy
about the historical aspect. We've done
podcast doing like political analysis
and this is a deep kind of political
analysis where you're going to each of
the CEOs and who is funding whom and all
these kind of things and we do need to
know that as well.
Um Thank you.
They've got
before we started this podcast, you said
they've got files on us, so it's good
that we have files on them as well,
isn't it?
Absolutely. Absolutely.
And having said that, one thing that is
making the news now and it's going to be
a big thing, especially in London.
You've mentioned it being at the hub of,
you know, illegitimacy
in there understandably.
Uh but it's also the hub of major
protest action activism. Yes. So, one of
the obviously the biggest ones on
Armistice Day. A lot of people are
saying, "How can you do this on
Armistice Day?"
Uh well, actually we're calling for an
armistice anyway, so it's
I don't see the issue here. But for the
for the sake of argument,
first and foremost, it's planned to be
the one of the biggest probably protest
in the last 20 years, maybe.
Yeah. Yeah. Um Muslims are going to be
watching this and the question is what
do you recommend? How do Muslims keep
themselves out of trouble? How do they
make sure that they
comply within the law, that they're not
caught out, that they don't do something
that's going to ruin the cause as well?
What's the advice that you'd give people
going to the protest? I mean, I think in
terms of the ruining the cause thing, I
wouldn't want to put too much pressure
on people to feel that anything they
could do, you know, would ruin anything.
You know, ultimately we are targets of
pretty sophisticated campaigns,
campaigns to um engineer our ideas, but
also campaigns to neutralize us as
political actors. You know, there is
essentially
a hierarchy of political subjectivity in
this country and Muslims have always
held a very low rank in that regard in
terms of what is permissible for them to
be doing politically active-wise
in terms of in the government size. So,
obviously protect yourself. Obviously,
um
you know, watch out for things. Don't
necessarily throw yourself at the front
line of all these things because
ultimately you are judged to a different
standard by the law. You are um more um
vulnerable in terms of those situations
and dealings with the police. So, just
be careful about that. But ultimately, I
would say what has to happen
is we also have to focus on where
Israel's vulnerabilities are in this
country. And to do that, we have to
understand Israel's operations and we
also have to understand what is
considered
is
to tell us the question, and what what
in the past has been the most
devastating thing to maybe Israel's
operations here in this country? So,
there's aspects of what Israel does
which are a bit harder to justify in in
the eyes of not only the law, but in
terms of public
perception. So, one of those is the fact
that Britain is a signatory to the Arms
Trade Treaty which means that Britain
has the legal obligation before it
rubber-stamps, before the business
secretary rubber-stamps an export of
arms to uh assess how likely it is that
that arms export will be used for
violations of international humanitarian
law. Now, in the case of Israel, you
have an open and shut case. Those
weapons will be used to kill people and
kill civilians, right? Therefore,
companies making arms to be used by the
Israelis in this country are not
expressions of strength. They are
vulnerabilities and they have been
targeted by Palestine Action
um a direct action organization hundreds
of times across the last 3 years and you
because of that have seen the closing of
at least two
Israeli arms sites in this country
um permanently.
Um and in addition to that, you've seen
the British Ministry of Defense cancel
280 million pounds worth of contracts
with
this particular company which is Elbit
Systems which is the largest Israeli
arms company. And so, because of the
difficulty in justifying the production
of weapons and this particular like with
a company like Elbit which produces 85%
of all Israel's drones that it uses,
it's it's in a way a spot that once
people are then put in the case of being
arrested by the police and in the case
of the CPS does charge them which often
the CPS doesn't, they then come before
court and a jury is very unlikely to
look at a case of somebody saying, "I
um
committed criminal damage on this
factory, yes, but I did it because the
things in this factory are going to go
and be used on these people. Here's some
evidence of Israel's war crimes." So,
it's in that way that people are able to
enter the court as the accused and leave
as the accuser. And so, you saw the
example from Derry in the north of
Ireland where they
went into the Raytheon factory and shut
it down during Israel's bombing of
Lebanon and
essentially Raytheon had to leave Derry
because they just couldn't sustain their
presence there in such an exposed way.
These companies function off camouflage.
So, as soon as you remove the
camouflage, you you their operations
more difficult. So,
I would say think critically. I would
say study. I would say understand you
are a target demographic. Um and there
are organizations who are working around
the clock not only to
um
build data on you, but also to try and
manipulate you in different ways. And
so, just think critically as much as you
can. And like I say, seek to see
vulnerabilities even in things that seem
like manifestations of strength.
Well, I'll tell you what has been a
manifestation of strength is your
analysis. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
you so much for coming. And honestly,
you must come again. You must come
again. Because I think many people would
have been taking notes uh
copious notes as I as I have. And uh
I've learned quite a lot actually. And
it's actually helped me understand a lot
of what's happened, you know, recently.
And so, I'm very very happy for you
coming over. And uh with that, we will
conclude. Obviously, you can follow uh
Loki on X, uh Twitter. He's He's doing
some really fantastic work. And some of
the
cutting-edge arguments on this matter
really has been from him.
I'm sure you've already subscribed to
him. But if you haven't, you're missing
out. And with that, I will conclude.
As-salamu alaykum wa rahmatullahi wa
barakatuh.